# Java Practice Programs

This repository contains a collection of Java practice programs organized into various categories based on the type of problems for self progress tracking. The main goal is to practice and improve Java programming skills over time. The programs are well-documented to facilitate understanding and revision.

## Directory Structure

- **01 Basic-Programs**
  - Contains simple Java programs that cover basic concepts like variables, data types, operators, control structures, etc.

- **02 Loop-Questions**
  - Focuses on problems that primarily involve loops, such as `for`, `while`, and `do-while` loops. It includes pattern printing, number series, and other loop-based exercises.

- **03 Array-Problems**
  - This section contains problems related to arrays, including `sorting`, `searching`, and `manipulating` arrays.

- **04 String-Practice**
    - This section contains problems related to strings, including string operations such as `String Manipulation`, `Update`, `StringBuilder`, `StringBuffer`, etc.

- **05 Real-world-class-building**
    - This section contains building real world related classes by incorporating the concept of `OOPS` to enhance the data control using `Encapsulation`, `Abstraction`, `try-catch`, etc.
    - Check out various classes inside this section which are implemented in `packages`.
- **out/production**
  - Automatically generated folder for compiled classes. This is not manually edited.

- **Java Programs.iml**
  - IntelliJ IDEA module file. This file is generated by IntelliJ and stores the module configuration.

## How to Use This Repository

1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/dhimanshashank/Java-Programs.git
   
2. **Navigate to a Directory:**
  - Go to the directory you're interested in (e.g., 01 Basic-Programs).
  - Each directory contains Java programs with detailed documentation explaining the purpose and logic of the code.

3. **Compile and Run:**
  - You can compile and run the programs directly using IntelliJ IDEA or any other Java IDE.
  - To compile manually:
    ```bash
    javac ProgramName.java
  - To run manually:
    ```bash
    java ProgramName

## Documentation
Each program is documented using JavaDoc comments. These comments provide insights into the code's functionality, expected inputs, outputs, and potential edge cases.
```java
  /**
   * This program calculates the sum of two integers.
   */
  class SumProgram {
      // Program code here
  }
```

## Future Plans
  - Expand the repository with more advanced problems, including topics like OOP (Object-Oriented Programming), file handling, and data structures.
  - Add test cases for each program.
  - Implement continuous integration (CI) to automatically test the programs.
